---
layout: post
title:  "Proceedings of computer engineering courses projects 2023-2024 of the Faculty of Applied Science of Ukrainian Catholic University"
date:   2024-08-26 14:33:50 +0200
categories: POC, ACS, OS, C++
author: indrekis
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

## Table of contents

- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Preface](#preface)
  - [By the scientific editor](#by-the-scientific-editor)
  - [By the editor-in-chief](#by-the-editor-in-chief)
- [HPC, simulations and visualisation](#hpc-simulations-and-visualisation)
  - [Modelling Of Protein Systems Using Monte-Carlo Simultaion](#modelling-of-protein-systems-using-monte-carlo-simultaion)
  - [Real-Time Raytracer: iterative approach](#real-time-raytracer-iterative-approach)
  - [Real-time Deep-Learning Image Matching on Edge](#real-time-deep-learning-image-matching-on-edge)
  - [Modeling of fluid behavior using Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics method](#modeling-of-fluid-behavior-using-smoothed-particle-hydrodynamics-method)
  - [Development of High-Performance Methods for Modeling Gravitational Interaction on Large Scales](#development-of-high-performance-methods-for-modeling-gravitational-interaction-on-large-scales)
  - [Concurrent Real-Time Raytracer 1](#concurrent-real-time-raytracer-1)
  - [Exploration of the Apple Neural Engine](#exploration-of-the-apple-neural-engine)
- [Hardware](#hardware)
  - [Visual odometry for real-time localization of dynamic locomotion devices](#visual-odometry-for-real-time-localization-of-dynamic-locomotion-devices)
  - [Homemade educational smartphone](#homemade-educational-smartphone)
- [System programming](#system-programming)
  - [Joker: Implementing Docker Containerization Functionality](#joker-implementing-docker-containerization-functionality)
  - [ICMP-based Rootkit](#icmp-based-rootkit)
  - [UEFI-game with bootloader functions](#uefi-game-with-bootloader-functions)
- [Computer engineering for the AI/ML](#computer-engineering-for-the-aiml)
  - [MacTell: an LLM-Based Code Interpreter](#mactell-an-llm-based-code-interpreter)
  - [DeepDendro: Parallel C++ Neural Network Framework](#deepdendro-parallel-c-neural-network-framework)
- [Purgatory](#purgatory)
  - [HPC, simulations and visualisation](#hpc-simulations-and-visualisation-1)
    - [Solving the rendering equation using Monte Carlo Method](#solving-the-rendering-equation-using-monte-carlo-method)
    - [Cross-platform Renderer for Volumetric Bodies with Vulkan API](#cross-platform-renderer-for-volumetric-bodies-with-vulkan-api)
    - [Concurrent Real-Time Raytracer 2](#concurrent-real-time-raytracer-2)
    - [GUI Toolkit for Wayland](#gui-toolkit-for-wayland)
  - [Hardware](#hardware-1)
    - [CCTV Camera Software Customization for Precise Frame Capture Time Retrieval](#cctv-camera-software-customization-for-precise-frame-capture-time-retrieval)
    - [Hardware and software methods to enhance image quality](#hardware-and-software-methods-to-enhance-image-quality)
  - [System programming](#system-programming-1)
    - [Building and Measuring the Efficiency of a Distributed Parallel Web Crawler](#building-and-measuring-the-efficiency-of-a-distributed-parallel-web-crawler)
    - [MYDOCKER: Implementation of Containerization Using Linux Kernel Features](#mydocker-implementation-of-containerization-using-linux-kernel-features)
  - [Computer engineering for the AI/ML](#computer-engineering-for-the-aiml-1)
    - [Parallel genetic algorithms library](#parallel-genetic-algorithms-library)
    - [Ant colony optimization algorithms](#ant-colony-optimization-algorithms)


## Preface 

### By the scientific editor

During the computer engineering courses of the CS.APPS.UCU, I am responsible for students performing course projects. Most projects are mentored by highly skilled experts from the Academy and Industry. For many years, I have been impressed by their quality and deepness. Two years ago, as a part of academic writing and coherent storytelling practice, I introduced the requirement to write a report in the form of an IEEE conference paper. And I then noticed that, sometimes, their reports are on par with conference papers. So, the idea of this preprint collection – the proceedings of our courses, was born.

Those courses are: “Computer Organization Basics” (POC), “Architecture of the Computers” (AKS), “Operating Systems” (OS), and “Modern C++,” so the topics of the projects are very broad: from the hardware design and characterization to the development of renderers, from neural networks optimization to the General relativity related problems modeling. However, they are connected to either developing the hardware, squeezing most from the existing hardware – so-called high-performance computing, or teaching all the mentioned.

Due process was used to select works for publication, and an anonymous peer review was performed. Each work was reviewed by at least two persons, selected among the students of our faculty, who were competent in the corresponding topics. Then, each paper was read and, if necessary, edited by Anastasiia Beheni, the editor-in-chief of the collection, and me.

In addition to the high-quality preprints, we decided to add Purgatory – a collection of the often not less interesting works, though with substantial problems and authors unwilling or unable to fix them. All of them passed the peer review, with some requests for corrections or improvements. One substantial case is the usage of illustrations from other works without citing their sources in the picture captions – authors in no way pretend they created those illustrations, and corresponding sources are mentioned in the references list – just without adhering to the proper procedure.

This project was impossible without the students and mentors working on the projects – and the Faculty and the University, bringing all of us together; reviews: Daria Minieieva, Dmytro Shumskyi, Dzvenyslava Butynets, Iryna Kokhan, Ivan Shevchenko, Kostyantin Savorona, Mariia Ivanchenko, Marta Sumyk, Oleksandr Ivaniuk, Oles Yarish. Olesia Omelchuk, Ostap Seryvko, Petro Mozil, Roman Mutel, Serhii Ivanov, Sofiia Folvarochna, Svitlana Hovorova, Viktoriia Kocherkevych, Yaroslav Klym and last but not least, without the Anastasiia Beheni, who agreed to serve as a manager of the project!

Many thanks to the Ukrainian Armed Forces for making this project possible!

I hope we continue our practice for the future years of our courses.

### By the editor-in-chief 


## HPC, simulations and visualisation

### Modelling Of Protein Systems Using Monte-Carlo Simultaion 

(АКС-24) <!-- нотатка для заповнення, потім прибрати -->

**Authors**:

**Published**:

**Abstract**: 


### Real-Time Raytracer: iterative approach 

(АКС-24)

### Real-time Deep-Learning Image Matching on Edge

**Authors**: Mykhailo Buleshnyi, Maksym Buleshnyi, Artur Pelcharskyi, Davyd Ilnytskyi, Roman Milishchuk, Vasyl Borsuk, Mykola Morhunenko.


**Published**: 28 September 2024. Performed in AKS-2024.

[Download preprint in PDF](/files/2024-08-26-preprints-2024-1/PR2024_08_work_03.pdf)
<!-- Думаю, просто нумеруємо роботи по порядку слідування і все -- сторінками чи хитрими назвами не заморочуємося -->

**Abstract**: In recent years, machine learning has experienced an immense surge in popularity. As the accuracy of models has significantly improved, there has been a corresponding increase in the resources required to execute them. In certain scenarios, it becomes crucial to employ complex deep-learning models on embedded devices in real-time. The objective of this work is to enhance the ALIKE model's speed while minimizing any potential loss in accuracy, targeting the embedded platforms, such as a BeagleBone AI-64.


### Modeling of fluid behavior using Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics method 

(АКС-24)

### Development of High-Performance Methods for Modeling Gravitational Interaction on Large Scales 

(АКС-23)


### Concurrent Real-Time Raytracer 1 

(АКС-23)

###  Exploration of the Apple Neural Engine 

(АКС-24)

## Hardware

### Visual odometry for real-time localization of dynamic locomotion devices 

(АКС-24)


### Homemade educational smartphone 

(ПОК-23)

## System programming

### Joker: Implementing Docker Containerization Functionality 

(ОС-23) 


### ICMP-based Rootkit 

(ОС-23)


### UEFI-game with bootloader functions 

(ОС-23)



## Computer engineering for the AI/ML

### MacTell: an LLM-Based Code Interpreter 

(ОС-23)


### DeepDendro: Parallel C++ Neural Network Framework 

(АКС-23) 


## Purgatory 


### HPC, simulations and visualisation

#### Solving the rendering equation using Monte Carlo Method  

(АКС-24)

#### Cross-platform Renderer for Volumetric Bodies with Vulkan API 

(ОС-23)

#### Concurrent Real-Time Raytracer 2 

(АКС-23)

#### GUI Toolkit for Wayland 

(ОС-23) 



### Hardware


#### CCTV Camera Software Customization for Precise Frame Capture Time Retrieval 

(ОС-23)



#### Hardware and software methods to enhance image quality 

(ПОК-23)


### System programming

#### Building and Measuring the Efficiency of a Distributed Parallel Web Crawler 

(АКС-23) 

#### MYDOCKER: Implementation of Containerization Using Linux Kernel Features 

(ОС-23)



### Computer engineering for the AI/ML


#### Parallel genetic algorithms library 

(АКС-24)

#### Ant colony optimization algorithms 

(АКС-23) 

